.\"
.\" MICO --- a CORBA 2.0 implementation
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Send comments and/or bug reports to:
.\"                mico@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
.\"
.TH IMR 1 "April 8 1997"
.SH NAME
imr \- MICO implementation repository tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR imr " " list
.br
.BR imr " " info " " "..."
.br
.BR imr " " create " " "..."
.br
.BR imr " " delete " " "..."
.br
.BR imr " " activate " " "..."
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR imr
is used to list all entries in the implementation repository, to show detailed
information for one entry, to create a new entry, and to delete an entry.
.SH "OPERATION MODES"
.SS "Listing All Entries"
.TP
.BR imr " " list
will print a listing of the names of all entries in the implementation
repository.
.SS "Details For One Entry"
.TP
.BR imr " " info " " <name>
will show you detailed information for the entry named
.BR <name> .
.SS "Creating New Entries"
.TP
.BR imr " " create " " <name> " " <mode> " " <command> " " <repoid1> " " ...
will create a new entry with name
.BR <name> .
.BR <mode>
is one of
.BR persistent ", " shared ", " unshared ", " permethod ", " library .
.BR <command>
is the shell command that should be used to start the server or the file name
of a loadable module for
.BR library
activation mode.
Note that all paths have to be absolute since
.BR micod 's
current
directory is probably different from your current directory. Furthermore
you have to make sure that the server is located on the same machine as
.BR micod ,
otherwise you have to use
.BR rsh .
.BR <repoid1> ", " <repoid2>
and so on are the repository ids for the IDL interfaces implemented by
the server.
.SS "Deleting Entries"
.TP
.BR imr " " delete " " <name>
will delete the entry named
.BR <name> .
.SS "Activation implementation"
.TP
.BR imr " " activate " " <name> " " "[<micod-address>]"
will force activation of the implementation
.BR <name> .
.SH FILES
~/.micorc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "MICO Reference Manual" ", " rsh(1) ", " micod(8) ", " imr(1) ", "
.IR ird(8) ", " micorc(5) ", " idl(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997, Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.SH AUTHOR
Kay Roemer & Arno Puder

