.\"
.\" MICO --- a CORBA 2.0 implementation
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Send comments and/or bug reports to:
.\"                mico@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
.\"
.TH NSADMIN 1 "April 8 1997"
.SH NAME
nsadmin \- MICO naming service administration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR nsadmin
.BR "[command ...]"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR nsadmin
provides a user interface to the COS naming service. If invoked
with no command line options (except ORB specific ones, such as
.BR -ORBNamingAddr )
it will enter interactive mode, show a prompt and wait for user input.
Otherwise the command line arguments are evaluated as a command. Below
is a short description of the supported commands. Context or binding names
follow the syntax of Unix file names: slashes are used to separate
context names; names starting with a slash are relative to the root,
everything else is relative to the current context; .. stands for the
parent context.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "help"
Gives an overview of all supported commands.
.TP
.BR "pwd"
Prints the path of the current naming context.
.TP
.BR "ls <binding-or-context>"
If
.BR "<binding-or-context>"
is a binding this will show the associated stringified IOR. If 
.BR "<binding-or-context>"
is a context then this will show the contents of it.
If 
.BR "<binding-or-context>"
is omitted the contents of the current naming context are shown.
.TP
.BR "cd <context>"
Make
.BR "<context>"
the current naming context.
.TP
.BR "mkdir <context>"
Create a new context.
.TP
.BR "bind <binding> <stringified-IOR>"
Bind
.BR "<binding>" " to " "<stringified-IOR>" .
.TP
.BR "rm <binding-or-context>"
Delete the given binding or context. If the specified argument is a
context then all its subcontexts will be removed, too.
.TP
.BR "exit"
Quit
.BR nsadmin .
.SH FILES
~/.micorc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "MICO Reference Manual" ", " rsh(1) ", " micod(8) ", " imr(1) ", "
.IR ird(8) ", " micorc(5) ", " idl(1) ", " nsd(8)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997, Kai-Uwe Sattler
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Sattler
