.TH CONF 5 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM FILE FORMATS"
.SH NAME
conf \- LAM node process schema
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Most LAM/MPI used can disregard this page.
.PP
A process schema lists the system processes that will constitute the
LAM environment on a particular node.  LAM developers will find
process schemata very useful for debugging and for generating custom
systems.
.PP
Separate default configurations files are normally used
for booting either the single-daemon version (conf.lam) or the
external-servers version (conf.otb).
The single-daemon version is used by default.
The external-servers version is typically used by LAM developers
when debugging LAM services.
The
.I \-c
option to hboot(1) specifies the file name of a custom process schema.
This capability is not available with lamboot(1).
.PP
Application programs can be booted with the LAM environment
by including the program name in the process schema.
.SH STRUCTURE AND SYNTAX
.PP
The process schema grammar defines three types of statements: comments,
processes, and options.
.PP
Comments begin with # and terminate with a newline.
.PP
Process statements consist of a filename, command line arguments,
and possibly options local to the process.
The command line arguments are passed to the process when it is started.
The process options are used by the booting tools before starting the process.
.PP
Filenames may include application programs and any of the system processes
listed below.
.PP
.TP 12
bforward        
bufferd helper, forwards remote messages.
.TP
bufferd
creates, kills, sweeps, and states buffers.
.TP
dli_inet        
sends data on network connections.
.TP
dlo_inet        
receives data from network connections.
.TP
echod   
echoes messages; can be used to test nodes and links.
.TP
filed   
serves file access.
.TP
flatd   
provides symbolic access to node memory.
.TP
iod     
handles stdio data of processes.
.TP
kenyad  
controls and monitors processes.
.TP
kernel  
coordinates message passing.
.TP
lamd    
single-daemon version of all servers excluding ledd and mtvd.
.TP
ledd    
controls LEDs.
.TP
loadd   
loads executable files onto nodes.
.TP
mtvd    
controls a pixel map display.
.TP
router  
maintains routing tables.
.TP
traced  
collects and transports trace data.
.PP
Processes are started in the order given in the process schema, and
for LAM, the order is important.
The kernel must be first.
.PP
Process options are placed inside braces {} following the
command line arguments.
Process options consist of a keyword followed by an assigned
value in parentheses.
Options that are not explicitly given have default settings.
Options inside braces in process statements apply only to that process.
Options outside process statements apply to all processes that
appear later in the process schema, unless locally overridden.
All the options are listed below:
.PP
.TP 12
inet_topo
a string of dli_inet or lamd options, global only, default null
.TP
rtr_topo
a string of router options, global only, default null
.TP
delay
waiting time in seconds after process boot, default 0
.PP
The inet_topo and rtr_topo options can be overridden from the
command line of hboot(1) using the -I and -R options respectively.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Following are example process schemata.
The first file is used for an OTB node in LAM.
.PP
.nf
##
## typical LAM process schemata
##

lamd $inet_topo
.fi
.LP
The second file is used by LAM developers to control each server
as an independent process, typically during debugging.
.LP
.nf
##
## external-servers LAM process schemata
##

##
## The kernel is listed first.
##
kernel $delay

##
## daemons
##
router
kenyad
dli_inet $inet_topo
dlo_inet
bufferd
bforward
loadd
echod
flatd
filed
traced
iod
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP 4
$LAMHOME/etc/lam-conf.lamd
default LAM node process schema, where $LAMHOME is the installation directory
.TP
$LAMHOME/etc/lam-conf.separate
example external-servers node process schema used when debugging LAM
.SH SEE ALSO
hboot(1)
