.TH MPI_Error_string 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Error_string \-  Return a string for a given error code 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Error_string(int errcode, char *msg, 
                    int *plen)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B errcode 
- Error code returned by an MPI routine or an MPI error
class
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B msg 
- Text that corresponds to the errorcode 
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B plen 
- Length of string 
.PD 1

.SH NOTES

Error codes are the values return by MPI routines (in C) or in the
.I ierr
argument (in Fortran).  These can be converted into error
classes with the routine 
.I MPI_Error_class
\&.


These messages are provided in English (En_US - English/United
States).  If there is an interest in providing messages in different
languages, please submit requests to the LAM mailing list (see
.I http://www.lam-mpi.org/contact.php
).

.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN

All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
)
have an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of
the routine in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are
invoked with the 
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The LAM Team would like the thank the MPICH Team for the handy program
to generate man pages ("doctext" from
.I ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/sowing/sowing.tar.gz
), the initial
formatting, and some initial text for most of the MPI-1 man pages.
.SH LOCATION
errstring.c
