.TH MPI_Comm_get_name 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Comm_get_name \-  Get the name associated with a communicator 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int
MPI_Comm_get_name(MPI_Comm comm, char *name, int *length)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- Communicator
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B name 
- Name of the communicator
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B length 
- Integer length of the resulting name
.PD 1

.SH NOTES

This function returns the name of a communicator that was previously
set with 
.I MPI_Comm_set_name
\&.
If a name was not previously associated
with a communicator, the returned string will be empty and 
.I length
will be 0.  The retuned name will be a maximum of
.I MPI_MAX_OBJECT_NAME
characters long.

.SH ERRORS

If an error occurs in an MPI function, the current MPI error handler
is called to handle it.  By default, this error handler aborts the
MPI job.  The error handler may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
;
the predefined error handler 
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause
error values to be returned (in C and Fortran; this error handler is
less useful in with the C++ MPI bindings.  The predefined error
handler 
.I MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS
should be used in C++ if the
error value needs to be recovered).  Note that MPI does 
.I not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error
value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines
in the last argument.  The C++ bindings for MPI do not return error
values; instead, error values are communicated by throwing exceptions
of type 
.I MPI::Exception
(but not by default).  Exceptions are only
thrown if the error value is not 
.I MPI::SUCCESS
\&.


Note that if the 
.I MPI::ERRORS_RETURN
handler is set in C++, while
MPI functions will return upon an error, there will be no way to
recover what the actual error value was.
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_COMM 
- Invalid communicator.  A common error is to use a
null communicator in a call (not even allowed in 
.I MPI_Comm_rank
).
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class.  This is typically a NULL
pointer or other such error.
.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Comm_set_name, MPI_Type_get_name, MPI_Type_set_name, MPI_Win_get_name, MPI_Win_set_name
.br

.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/
.SH LOCATION
cgetname.c
