.TH MPI_Keyval_create 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Keyval_create \-  Generates a new communicator attribute key 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Keyval_create(MPI_Copy_function *cpyfunc, 
                     MPI_Delete_function *delfunc, 
                     int *key, void *extra)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B cpyfunc 
- Copy callback function for 
.I keyval

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B delfunc 
- Delete callback function for 
.I keyval

.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B extra 
- Extra state for callback functions 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B key 
- key value for future access (integer) 
.PD 1


.SH NOTES

This function is deprecated.  It has been replaced with an MPI-2
function (see the "See also" section, below), which provides the same
functionality.  This function is (or effectively is) a wrapper to the
replacement function, anyway.  User programs should use the MPI-2
replacement function instead of this function.

Some functions are deprecated because their names did not conform to
the stricter naming conventions of MPI-2; others are deprecated
because they have been replaced with more flexible functionality.

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Comm_create_keyval
.br

.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The LAM Team would like the thank the MPICH Team for the handy program
to generate man pages ("doctext" from
.I ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/sowing/sowing.tar.gz
), the initial
formatting, and some initial text for most of the MPI-1 man pages.
.SH LOCATION
keycreate.c
