.TH MPI_Type_struct 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Type_struct \-  Creates a struct datatype 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Type_struct(int count, int *lengths, 
                   MPI_Aint *disps, MPI_Datatype *oldtypes, 
                   MPI_Datatype *newtype)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B count 
- number of blocks (integer) -- also number of 
entries in arrays array_of_types ,
array_of_displacements  and array_of_blocklengths  
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B blocklens 
- number of elements in each block (array)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B indices 
- byte displacement of each block (array)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B old_types 
- type of elements in each block (array 
of handles to datatype objects) 
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER
.PD 0
.TP
.B newtype 
- new datatype (handle) 
.PD 1


.SH NOTES

This function is deprecated.  It has been replaced with an MPI-2
function (see the "See also" section, below), which provides the same
functionality.  This function is (or effectively is) a wrapper to the
replacement function, anyway.  User programs should use the MPI-2
replacement function instead of this function.

Some functions are deprecated because their names did not conform to
the stricter naming conventions of MPI-2; others are deprecated
because they have been replaced with more flexible functionality.

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_Type_create_struct
.br

.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The LAM Team would like the thank the MPICH Team for the handy program
to generate man pages ("doctext" from
.I ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/sowing/sowing.tar.gz
), the initial
formatting, and some initial text for most of the MPI-1 man pages.
.SH LOCATION
tstruct.c
