.TH MPI_Finalized 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_Finalized \-  Indicates whether 
.I MPI_Finalize
has completed. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_Finalized(int *flag)
.fi
.SH OUTPUT PARAMETER

.PD 0
.TP
.B flag 
- Flag is true (1) if 
.I MPI_Finalize
has been called and false (0)
otherwise.
.PD 1

.SH NOTES

Note that this function does not indicate whether 
.I MPI_INIT
has been
called.  It only indicates whethere 
.I MPI_FINALIZE
has been called.

This function always returns 
.I MPI_SUCCESS
\&.


.SH NOTES FOR FORTRAN

All MPI routines in Fortran (except for 
.I MPI_WTIME
and 
.I MPI_WTICK
)
have an additional argument 
.I ierr
at the end of the argument list.
.I ierr
is an integer and has the same meaning as the return value of
the routine in C.  In Fortran, MPI routines are subroutines, and are
invoked with the 
.I call
statement.

All MPI objects (e.g., 
.I MPI_Datatype
, 
.I MPI_Comm
) are of type
.I INTEGER
in Fortran.

.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The LAM Team would like the thank the MPICH Team for the handy program
to generate man pages ("doctext" from
.I ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/sowing/sowing.tar.gz
), the initial
formatting, and some initial text for most of the MPI-1 man pages.
.SH LOCATION
finalized.c
