.TH MPI_DUP_FN 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPI_DUP_FN \-  Built-in MPI function to simple-mindedly copy communicator attributes. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
int MPI_DUP_FN(MPI_Comm comm, int key, void *extra, 
               void *attrin, void *attrout, int *flag)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B comm 
- communicator (handle)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B key 
- key value (integer)
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B extra 
- extra state
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B attrin 
- in value for attribute
.PD 1

.SH OUTPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B attrout 
- out value for attribute
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B flag 
- 1 if attribute copied successfully, 0 otherwise (logical)
.PD 1


.SH NOTES

This function is deprecated.  It has been replaced with an MPI-2
function (see the "See also" section, below), which provides the same
functionality.  This function is (or effectively is) a wrapper to the
replacement function, anyway.  User programs should use the MPI-2
replacement function instead of this function.

Some functions are deprecated because their names did not conform to
the stricter naming conventions of MPI-2; others are deprecated
because they have been replaced with more flexible functionality.

.SH SEE ALSO
MPI_COMM_DUP_FN
.br

.SH ADDITIONAL

Note that the C typedefs 
.I MPI_Copy_function
and
.I MPI_MPI_Delete_function
are also deprecated, in favor of their new
names - 
.I MPI_Comm_copy_function
, 
.I MPI_Comm_delete_function
\&.


Additionally, the MPI constants 
.I MPI_NULL_COPY_FN
and
.I MPI_NULL_DELETE_FN
are also deprecated in favor of their new names -
.I MPI_COMM_NULL_COPY_FN
and 
.I MPI_COMM_NULL_DELETE_FN
\&.


.SH MORE INFORMATION

For more information, please see the official MPI Forum web site,
which contains the text of both the MPI-1 and MPI-2 standards.  These
documents contain detailed information about each MPI function (most
of which is not duplicated in these man pages).

.I http://www.mpi-forum.org/


.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The LAM Team would like the thank the MPICH Team for the handy program
to generate man pages ("doctext" from
.I ftp://ftp.mcs.anl.gov/pub/sowing/sowing.tar.gz
), the initial
formatting, and some initial text for most of the MPI-1 man pages.
.SH LOCATION
dupfn.c
