.TH MPIL_Request_get_name 3 "6/24/2006" "LAM/MPI 7.1.4" "LAM/MPI"
.SH NAME
MPIL_Request_get_name \-  LAM/MPI-specific function to get a string name on an MPI_Request 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mpi.h>
char *
MPIL_Request_get_name(MPI_Request req)
.fi
.SH INPUT PARAMETERS
.PD 0
.TP
.B req 
- MPI_Request (handle)
.PD 1

.SH RETURN VALUE

If a valid MPI_Request is passed to this function, a valid string will
be returned, even if no name was ever set on the request.  The string
that is returned is a pointer to internal storage and should not be
modified or freed.

.SH ERRORS

If an error occurs in an MPI function, the current MPI error handler
is called to handle it.  By default, this error handler aborts the
MPI job.  The error handler may be changed with 
.I MPI_Errhandler_set
;
the predefined error handler 
.I MPI_ERRORS_RETURN
may be used to cause
error values to be returned (in C and Fortran; this error handler is
less useful in with the C++ MPI bindings.  The predefined error
handler 
.I MPI::ERRORS_THROW_EXCEPTIONS
should be used in C++ if the
error value needs to be recovered).  Note that MPI does 
.I not
guarantee that an MPI program can continue past an error.

All MPI routines (except 
.I MPI_Wtime
and 
.I MPI_Wtick
) return an error
value; C routines as the value of the function and Fortran routines
in the last argument.  The C++ bindings for MPI do not return error
values; instead, error values are communicated by throwing exceptions
of type 
.I MPI::Exception
(but not by default).  Exceptions are only
thrown if the error value is not 
.I MPI::SUCCESS
\&.


Note that if the 
.I MPI::ERRORS_RETURN
handler is set in C++, while
MPI functions will return upon an error, there will be no way to
recover what the actual error value was.
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_SUCCESS 
- No error; MPI routine completed successfully.
.PD 1
.PD 0
.TP
.B MPI_ERR_ARG 
- Invalid argument.  Some argument is invalid and is not
identified by a specific error class.  This is typically a NULL
pointer or other such error.
.PD 1

.SH SEE ALSO
MPIL_Request_set_name
.br
.SH LOCATION
mpil_rgetname.c
