.\"
.\" MICO --- a CORBA 2.0 implementation
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Send comments and/or bug reports to:
.\"                mico@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
.\"
.TH IRD 8 "April 8 1997"
.SH NAME
ird \- MICO interface repository server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR ird
.BR "[<options>]"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ird
implements the interface repository, the part of CORBA where runtime
type information is stored.
.BR ird
is terminated by pressing
.BR ctrl-c
or by sending it the
.BR SIGTERM
signal.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "--help"
Gives an overview of all supported command line options.
.TP
.BR --db=<database-file>
Specifies the file name where
.BR ird
should save the contents of the interface repository when exiting.  When
.BR ird
is restarted afterwards it will read the file given
by the
.BR --db
option to restore the contents of the interface
repository. Notice that the contents of this database file is just
plain ASCII representing a CORBA IDL specification.
.TP
.BR --ior=<ior-file>
The stringified IOR of the Interface Repository is written to
.BR ior-file.
If
.BR -
is used as ior-file, the IOR is written to standard output.
.SH FILES
~/.micorc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "MICO Reference Manual" ", " rsh(1) ", " micod(8) ", " imr(1) ", "
.IR micorc(5) ", " idl(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997, Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.SH AUTHOR
Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
