.\"
.\" MICO --- a CORBA 2.0 implementation
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.\" Send comments and/or bug reports to:
.\"                mico@informatik.uni-frankfurt.de
.\"
.TH MICOD 8 "April 8 1997"
.SH NAME
micod \- MICO object adapter daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "micod [options]"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The object adapter daemon
.BR micod
is the part of an object adapter that activates object implementations
when their service is requested. Moreover
.BR micod
contains the implementation repository. To make all MICO applications use a
single implementation repository you have to tell
.BR micod
an address to bind to using the
.BR -ORBIIOPAddr
option and tell all MICO
applications this address by using the
.BR -ORBImplRepoAddr
option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "--help"
Gives an overview of all supported command line options.
.TP
.BR --forward
This option instructs micod to make use of GIOP location forwarding, which
results in much better performance (there is nearly no overhead compared
to not using micod at all). Unfortunately this requires some client side
GIOP features that some ORBs do not support properly although prescribed
in the CORBA specification. Therefore you may encounter problems when
using clients implemented using such broken ORBs. That is why this feature
is off by default.
.TP
.BR --db=<database-file>
Specifies the file name where
.BR micod
should save the contents of the implementation repository when exiting.  When
.BR micod
is restarted afterwards it will read the file given
by the
.BR --db
option to restore the contents of the implementation
repository.
.SH FILES
~/.micorc
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "MICO Reference Manual" ", " rsh(1) ", " micod(8) ", " imr(1) ", "
.IR micorc(5) ", " idl(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997, Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
.SH AUTHOR
Kay Roemer & Arno Puder
