.TH lamssi 7 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM SSI OVERVIEW"
.SH NAME
LAM SSI \- introduction to LAM System Services Interface (SSI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The SSI in LAM/MPI is used to select one (or more) system services
interfaces at run-time.  
.SH OVERVIEW
.PP
LAM SSI instances are uniquely described in terms of "kinds" (also
referred to as "types") and "modules".
.PP
The "kind" refers to which set of system services the SSI instance
will apply to.  For example, LAM currently has several 
kinds: "boot", "coll", "cr" and "rpi".  The "module" refers to a
specific SSI instance of a given kind.  Each kind has o
.PP
boot modules are used to start the LAM run-time environment (i.e.,
they provide the back-end functionality to
.IR lamboot (1)).  
boot modules are discussed further in the lamssi_boot(7) man page.
.PP
coll modules provide back-end algorithms and functionality for the MPI
collective communications.  coll modules are described in
lamssi_coll(7).  
.PP
cr modules provide checkpoint/restart functionality for MPI jobs.  See
lamssi_cr(7) for details.
.PP
rpi modules provide back-end functionality for MPI point-to-point
communications.  rpi modules are detailed in lamssi_rpi(7).
.SH VERBOSE OPERATION
.PP
The user can force SSI modules to be verbose by setting the 
.I LAM_SSI_ssi_verbose
environment variable before invoking
.IR mpirun ,
or by using the
.I -ssi
command line switch to
.IR mpirun .
For example:
.TP 4
mpirun -ssi ssi_verbose 1 C foo
Tell the SSI modules to be verbose, and default to sending their
output to stderr.
.PP
The 
.I ssi_verbose
kind is a "pseudo-kind" in that it is used to pass parameters to the
main SSI meta-glue itself -- not to any particular kind.  It can take
many different parameters to format where and how the verbose output
will be sent (note that at least one parameter must be specified, even
if it is an invalid parameter).  Any combination of the following
parameters may follow the
.I ssi_verbose
kind (separated by commas):
.TP 4
syslog
Send the verbose output to the syslog.
.TP
syslogpri:<priority>
Set the syslog output priority to <priority>.  Using this paramter
implies the
.I syslog
parameter.  The default priority is 
.I info
(LOG_INFO).
Valid <priority> values are: 
.I notice 
(LOG_NOTICE), 
.IR info ,
and
.I debug 
(LOG_DEBUG).
.TP
syslogid:<id>
Use the ID <id> for the syslog prefix.
.TP
stdout
Send the verbose output to stdout.
.TP
stderr
Send the verbose output to stderr.
.TP
file[:<filename>]
Send the verbose output to a file in the LAM per-user, per-node meta
information directory (usually located in /tmp).  If <filename> is
specified, send the output to the file named lam-<filename>.  If
<filename> is not specified, send the output to the file named
lam-ssi.txt.
.TP
fileappend
Append to the file when sending the verbose output (create the file if
it does not exist).  If this parameter is not given, if the file
already exists, it will be overwritten.  Using this parameter implies
the
.I file
parameter.
.TP
level:vlevel
Indicate the specific verbosity level to be used.  Although the
specific meaning of the verbosity level is left up to individual SSI
modules, generally negative numbers mean no verbose messages, 0 means
a minimal set of messages, and positive numbers mean more messages
(the greater the positive number, the more output messages will be
generated). If left unspecified any any other
.I ssi_verbose
parameters are specified, the default level of 0 is used.
.PP
If multiple parameters are passed in
.IR ssi_verbose ,
the output will be directed as implied by all the parameters.  If no
valid parameters are passed (e.g., a single invalid parameter is
passed), then output will be directed to stderr by default.
.PP
Also note that as with all SSI parameters, all of these values may be
passed by setting the environment variable
.I LAM_SSI_ssi_verbose
before invoking
.IR mpirun .
However, parameters passed through "-ssi ssi_verbose" will take
precedence over environment variables.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
mpirun -ssi ssi_verbose 1 C foo
Since no valid parameters were passed, the verbose output will be sent
to stderr.
.TP
mpirun -ssi ssi_verbose file:output.txt,syslogpri:notice C foo
Send the verbose output to both the file lam-output.txt in the LAM
user meta directory as well as to the syslog with a priority of
LOG_NOTICE. 
.SH SEE ALSO
lamssi_boot(7), lamssi_coll(7), lamssi_cr(7), lamssi_rpi(7), mpirun(1), lamboot(1), recon(1), lamwipe(1), LAM User's Guide
