.TH INTROC 2 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM LIBRARY"
.SH NAME
introc - introduction to LAM C programming functions
.SH LIST OF FUNCTIONS
.nf
.ta \w'MPIL_Universe_size 'u +\w'MPIL_Trace_on.2 'u
\fIName	Appears	Description\fR
\fI	on Page\fR
.sp 1
atkexit	kexit.2	Register cleanup function.
drecv	dsend.2	datalink message receive
dsend	dsend.2	datalink message send
getall	getnodes.2	Get array of all node IDs.
getcomps	getnodes.2	Get array of all compute IDs.
getjones	getnodes.2	Get array of all neighbour IDs.
getnall	getntype.2	Get total number of nodes.
getncomp	getntype.2	Get number of compute nodes.
getnjones	getntype.2	Get number of neighbour nodes.
getnodeid	getntype.2	Get local node ID.
getnodes	getnodes.2	Get array of node IDs.
getnodetype	getntype.2	Get local node type.
getnotb	getntype.2	Get number of OTB nodes.
getntype	getntype.2	Get number of type matching nodes.
getorigin	getntype.2	Get origin node ID.
getotbs	getnodes.2	Get array of OTB node IDs.
getrent	getrent.2	Get route table entry.
getrentc	getrent.2	Get & cache route table entry.
getroute	getrent.2	Get route to reach node.
getroute2	getrent.2	Get secondary route.
getrtype	getrent.2	Get remote node type.
getsmart	getntype.2	Wait for smart router.
kattach	kattach.2	Attach self to kernel.
kcreate	kcreate.2	Create local process.
kdetach	kattach.2	Detach process from kernel.
kdoom	kdoom.2	Signal local process.
kenter	kenter.2	Register self process.
kexit	kexit.2	Terminate self with cleanup.
_kexit	kexit.2	Terminate self without cleanup.
kinit	kinit.2	Initialize self process.
krecv	ksend.2	local message receive
ksend	ksend.2	local message send
kstate	kstate.2	Get kernel process status.
lam_kpause	lam_ksignal.2	Wait for any signal.
lam_ksigblock	lam_ksigblock.2	Block signals.
lam_ksignal	lam_ksignal.2	Vector signal to handler.
lam_ksigretry	lam_ksigblock.2	Retry signals.
lam_ksigsetmask	lam_ksigblock.2	Set all signals to (no)block.
lam_ksigsetretry	lam_ksigblock.2	Set all signals to (no)retry.
lam_rfincr	lam_rfrmfd.2	Increment open count on file descriptor.
lam_rfposix	lam_rfposix.2	Unix-like remote file access
lam_rfrmfd	lam_rfrmfd.2	Remove file descriptor.
lam_rfstate	lam_rfstate.2	Get remote file status.
lam_rtrfforget	lam_rtrget.2	Load trace data to file.
lam_rtrfget	lam_rtrget.2	Copy trace data to file.
lam_rtrforget	lam_rtrget.2	Load trace data to buffer.
lam_rtrget	lam_rtrget.2	Copy trace data to buffer.
lam_rtrstore	lam_rtrstore.2	Store trace data in daemon.
lam_rtrsweep	lam_rtrsweep.2	Remove trace data from daemon.
lam_rtrudie	lam_rtrsweep.2	Remove data pertaining to PID.
lam_rtrwipe	lam_rtrsweep.2	Reset trace daemon.
lpattach	lpattach.2	Attach to remote process control.
lpdetach	lpattach.2	Detach from remote process control.
ltot	ttol.3	local to LAM data conversion
nprobe	nprobe.2	Probe receivable messages.
nrecv	nsend.2	network message receive
nsend	nsend.2	network message send
precv	psend.2	physical message receive
precvclose	psend.2	Close receive end of virtual circuit.
precvopen	psend.2	Open receive end of virtual circuit.
psend	psend.2	physical message send
psendclose	psend.2	Close send end of virtual circuit.
psendopen	psend.2	Open send end of virtual circuit.
rbfparms	rbfparms.2	Set buffer parameters.
rbfstate	rbfstate.2	Get buffer status.
rbfsweep	rbfparms.2	Clean buffers.
recho	recho.2	Echo messages to remote node.
rflat	rflat.2	Tag and load storage on remote node.
rforget	rget.2	Find tagged storage; remove tag.
rget	rget.2	Find tagged storage.
rload	rload.2	Load a file onto a remote node.
rpcreate	rpcreate.2	Create remote process from local file.
rpdoom	rpdoom.2	Signal remote processes.
rpgo	rpgo.2	Create remote process from tagged store.
rploadgo	rploadgo.2	Create remote process.
rpspawn	rpspawn.2	Spawn remote process.
rpstate	rpstate.2	Get remote process status.
rpwait	rpwait.2	Wait for remote process to exit.
rremrent	rrsetrents.2	Remove route entry.
rrsetrents	rrsetrents.2	Set route entries.
trecv	tsend.2	transport message receive
tsend	tsend.2	transport message send
ttime	ttime.3	Get current time in seconds.
ttol	ttol.3	LAM to local data conversion
MPI_Spawn	MPI_Spawn.2	Create processes.
.sp 1
LAM/MPI Extensions
.sp 1
\fIName	Appears	Description\fR
\fI	on Page\fR
.sp 1
MPIL_Comm_gps	MPIL_Comm_id.2	Get LAM coordinates for MPI process.
MPIL_Comm_id	MPIL_Comm_id.2	Get communicator ID.
MPIL_Comm_parent	MPIL_Spawn.2	Get parent intercommunicator.
MPIL_Signal	MPIL_Signal.2	Deliver a signal.
MPIL_Spawn	MPIL_Spawn.2	Create processes.
MPIL_Trace_on	MPIL_Trace_on.2	Enable trace collection.
MPIL_Trace_off	MPIL_Trace_on.2	Disable trace collection.
MPIL_Type_id	MPIL_Comm_id.2	Get datatype ID.
MPIL_Universe_size	MPIL_Spawn.2	Get number of nodes.
.DT
.fi
