.TH RGET 2 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM REMOTE LIBRARY"
.SH NAME
rget, rforget \- Find tagged storage on a LAM remote node.
.SH SYNOPSIS
char *rget (int node, int tag);
.br
char *rforget (int node, int tag);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The flat storage service allows data to be loaded onto a remote
node, stored in a remote file, and assigned a reference tag by the client.
The client can then send the tag to any process on the remote node
and that process can convert the tag locally, using either
.I rget()
or
.IR rforget() ,
to the stored filename.
The flat storage service has two important purposes.
It allows remote servers to remain stateless vis-a-vis incoming message
packets when a large dataset or file need to be transferred to the server
(e.g. loading and running a program).
There is no load on the buffers and no chance of memory deadlock.
Secondly, in multicast operations, it gives the client the power to
refer to remote storage by the same tag value on several nodes.
Thus, one message containing a tag value can be efficiently multicasted.
.PP
The tag is preserved by
.I rget()
but removed by
.IR rforget() .
The latter function should be used if the tag will not be
used again, to avoid overflow of the associated tables.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, the actual filename of the remote storage
is returned.
If an error occurred, \-1 is returned and the global variable
.I errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 16
EBADTAG
The tag is unknown.
.SH SEE ALSO
rflat(2), rload(2)
