.TH FSTATE 1 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fstate \- Report information on LAM remote file daemon.
.SH SYNOPSIS
fstate
[-ah] [-F ndesc] nodes
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 14
.B \-a
Report on active descriptors only.
.TP
.B \-h
Print the command help menu.
.TP
.B \-F ndesc
Report up to a limit of ndesc descriptors.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Most MPI users will probably not need to use the
.I fstate
command.  This command is only installed if LAM/MPI was configured
with the
.I --with-trillium
switch.
.PP
The
.I fstate
command reports on open file descriptors maintained by the remote file daemon.
With no options, information is printed on all open descriptors under the
following headings:
.TP 10
FD
the LAM descriptor handle, different than the client handle or actual
UNIX handle
.TP
FLAGS
the open flags: R for read, W for write, A for active, L for locked active
.TP
FLOW
the total number of bytes transferred in both directions
.TP
CLIENT
the node ID and process ID of the last client
.TP
NAME
the file name
.PP
The file deamon is a UNIX process, and UNIX processes are limited in the
number of UNIX file descriptors (fd) that they can open at any one time.
Yet the number of LAM processes is essentially unlimited.
LAM descriptors are associated with each client's open user
descriptors, and are used by LAM to identify the file.
They are temporarily assigned UNIX file descriptors.
When this happens, the status of the filed descriptor is active.
Locked filed descriptors remain active continuously.
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP 4
fstate h
Report all filed descriptors, representing every open file in the LAM
network.
.SH SEE ALSO
fctl(1)
