.TH INTROU 1 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
introu - introduction to LAM user interface commands
.SH LIST OF COMMANDS
.nf
.ta 15 30 45
\fIName	Appears	Description\fR
\fI	on Page\fR
.sp 1
bfctl	bfctl.1	Control message buffers (optional).
bfstate	bfstate.1	Get message buffer status (optional).
doom	doom.1	Deliver a signal (optional).
fctl	fctl.1	Control remote file access (optional).
fstate	fstate.1	Get remote file status (optional).
hboot	hboot.1	Start LAM on a local node.
mpicc	mpicc.1	Compile LAM C programs.
mpiCC	mpicc.1	Compile LAM C++ programs.
mpif77	mpif77.1	Compile LAM F77 programs.
lamboot	lamboot.1	Start LAM.
lamclean	lamclean.1	Clean all nodes.
lamexec	lamexec.1	Run non-MPI programs.
lamgrow	lamgrow.1	Add a node.
lamhalt	lamhalt.1	Terminate LAM.
lamshrink	lamshrink.1	Remove a node.
lamtrace	lamtrace.1	Unload trace data.
loadgo	loadgo.1	Execute program (optional).
mpimsg	mpimsg.1	Display MPI buffered messages.
mpirun	mpirun.1	Run an MPI application.
mpitask	mpitask.1	Display MPI processes.
recon	recon.1	Verify LAM setup.
state	state.1	Get process status (optional).
sweep	bfctl.1	Clean out message buffers (optional).
tkill	tkill.1	Terminate local node LAM session.
tping	tping.1	Echo messages to a node.
lamwipe	lamwipe.1	Terminate LAM (deprecated; use lamhalt).
.SS Node Specification
Target nodes are given on the command line.
Nodes are generically identified as
.IR nlist ,
where list can be a single node identifier or a list of node identifiers.
For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
n1
n1,3,5-10
.fi
.RE
.PP
Additionally, 
.I clist 
can be used to list specific CPUs on a given machine (lamboot(1) is
used to specify how many CPUs LAM may use on each node).
.PP
Node/CPU identifiers are established in the boot schema (see
bhost(5)), and can be written in decimal or hexadecimal notation.  In
addition to explicit node identification, LAM has special mnemonics
that refer to special nodes or a group of nodes.
.PP
.TP 8
h
the local node where the command is typed (as in "here")
.TP
o
the origin node where LAM was started with lamboot(1)
.TP
N
all nodes
.TP
C
all CPUs
.SS Process Specification
LAM processes can be specified in two ways: by process identifier
from the underlying operating system or by LAM process index.
PIDs are written as
.IR plist ,
where list can be a single PID or a list of PIDs.
Process indices are written as
.IR ilist ,
where list can be a single index or a list of indices.
