.TH LAMGROW 1 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
lamgrow \- Extend a LAM multicomputer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.HP
lamgrow [-hvd] [-cpu num] [-n nodeid] [-no-schedule] [-ssi key value] hostname
.hy 1
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 14
.B \-cpu num
Indicate how many CPUs are available to LAM on the new node.
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on debugging output.  This implies -v.
.TP
.B \-h
Print useful information on this command.
.TP
.B \-n nodeid
Assign this ID to the new node.
.TP
.B \-no-schedule
Indicate that C and N expansion in
.I mpirun
and
.I lamexec 
should not schedule on this node.
.TP
.B -ssi key value
Send arguments to various SSI modules.  See the "SSI" section, below.
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose.
.TP
.B hostname
Extend LAM with this host.
.SH DESCRIPTION
An existing LAM universe, initiated by lamboot(1), can be enlarged to
include more nodes with
.IR lamgrow .
One new node is added for each invocation.  At a minimum, the host
name that will run the new node is given on the command line.  If a
different userid is required to access the host, it is specified with
the appropriate boot SSI options (see lamssi_boot(7)).
.PP
The new node can be assigned any unused, non-negative identifier.  If
no identifier is specified, the highest node identifier in the current
LAM universe plus one is used.  Note that lamboot(1) always assigns
node identifiers consecutively from 0.
.PP
.I lamgrow
can be run from any node in the current LAM universe.  Specifically --
it cannot be run from the intended new host.  Two invocations of
.I lamgrow
should not run concurrently, and the command attempts to detect this
situation. The name of the host specified in
.IR lamgrow
should not be the one which is already present in the user's LAM universe 
and the command attempts to detect this situation too. 
.PP
Resource managers will be the most common user of
.IR lamgrow .
When hosts become idle and a user has expressed a desire to the manager
that extra cycles should be exploited, the manager could invoke
.I lamgrow
and then launch the specified application process(es) on the new node.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
lamgrow -v newhost
Start LAM on newhost and add it to the existing LAM universe.  Choose
the next available node identifier and report about important steps as
they are done.
.TP
lamgrow -n 30 newhost
Start LAM on newhost with node ID 30 and add it to the existing LAM
universe.  Operate silently.
.SH FILES
.TP 34
laminstalldir/etc/lam-conf.lamd
default configuration file for LAM nodes, where "laminstalldir" is the
directory where LAM/MPI was installed.
.SH BUGS
It is not currently possible to specify a configuration file other
than lam-conf.lamd on the remote node, even though this is possible
with
.IR lamboot .
.SH SEE ALSO
lamboot(1), lamhalt(1), hboot(1), lamwipe(1), tkill(1), bhost(5),
conf(5), lamssi_boot(7)
