.TH LAMNODES 1 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM TOOLS"
.SH NAME
lamnodes \- Resolve LAM node/CPU notation to Unix hostnames.
.SH SYNOPSIS
lamnodes [-chin] [where]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 12
.B \-c
Suppress printing the CPU count for each node.
.TP
.B \-h
Print the command help menu.
.TP
.B \-i
Print IP addresses (instead of IP names)
.TP
.B \-n
Suppress printing CPU count for each node
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I lamnodes
command is used to resolve LAM node/CPU nomenclature to Unix
hostnames.  It can be used to determine the current running
configuration of the LAM/MPI run-time environment, and generate a boot
schema that can be used to launch LAM in the future.
.PP
By default, 
.I lamnodes
will print out the node number, default IP name, CPU count, and
per-node flags for each node in the running LAM.  gethostbyaddr(3) is
used to obtain default hostnames.  If gethostbyaddr(3) fails, the IP
number is displayed instead.
.PP
This command can be used by setup shell scripts (and the like) to
determine information from a currently-running LAM universe.  For
example, use lamnodes to resolve particular CPUs and/or nodes to
specific unix hostnames.  In a batch environment,
.I lamnodes
can be used to determine which CPUs share a common node (note that
MPI_GET_PROCESSOR_NAME can be used for a similar effect in an MPI
program).
.PP
.I lamnodes
also shows per-node flags.  Currently defined flags are:
.TP 12
.B origin
The node where 
.I lamboot
was executed.
.TP
.B this_node
The node where
.I lamnodes
is running.
.TP
.B no_schedule
The node will not be used to run MPI and serial processes when N and C
are used to
.I mpirun
and
.IR lamexec .
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
lamnodes N -n
Display IP names and CPU counts for all nodes.  This output can be
saved and later used with lamboot(1).
.TP
lamnodes C -n -c
Display the IP name of the nodes containing each CPU, and suppress the
LAM node number and CPU count.  This output can be saved and later
used with lamboot(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
bhost(5), gethostbyaddr(3), lamboot(1)
