.TH TPING 1 "July, 2007" "LAM 7.1.4" "LAM COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
tping \- Send echo messages to LAM nodes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.HP
tping [-hv] [-c count] [-d delay] [-l length] nodes
.hy 1
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 14
.B \-h
Print the command help menu.
.TP
.B \-v
Turn OFF verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-c count
Send count messages.
.TP
.B \-d delay
Delay delay seconds between each message.
.TP
.B \-l length
Each message is length bytes long.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I tping
command sends messages to, and collects replies from,
a list of nodes, via the LAM echo server.
It is similar to the UNIX ping(8) command, and is used as a quick
diagnosis of the LAM network.
.PP
Unless options are specified,
.I tping
sends a 1 byte message an infinite number of times,
displaying the roundtrip time of each message as it completes,
with a delay of 1 second between roundtrips.
After the loop is broken (with keyboard interrupt, eg: ^C),
.I tping
prints statistics about all roundtrip messages.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
tping h
Echo messages to the local node.
.TP
tping -v n7 -l 1000 -c 10
Echo 1000 byte messages to node 7.
Stay silent while working.
Stop after 10 roundtrips and report statistics.
.SH BUGS
There is no built-in timeout and
.I tping
will wait forever to receive an echo.
If no echo is received, due to a dead link or node,
.I tping
hangs.  Stop the process with a keyboard suspend signal (eg: ^Z) and
terminate LAM with lamhalt(1) or lamwipe(1) (although the use of
lamwipe(1) is deprecated).
.SH SEE ALSO
lamhalt(1), lamwipe(1)
